>> Steve Kinney: So
how might we build an AST?
Well, we can iterate through the array
of tokens for each number or string.
You add that to the same level
of the tree, right, their peers.
For each parentheses though,
that's like a function call in
a Lisp-like language, right?
And so we know that, okay,
that's gonna be a CallExpression.
The first thing is the function name,
right?
And they use subsequent ones
are the arguments, right?
So we can kind of go and
use the use data we collected.
White spaces matter,
it was just to break apart our token.
Quotes didn't matter, it was just to
identify string, so we threw those away,
we didn't even keep those.
But parentheses,
parentheses won't make it into our AST,
cuz they're not important to
the actual meaning of the language,
they just denote as we're trying
to figure out that meaning.
Once we figured out what they were
there for, we can throw those out, too.
We really just need the identifiers and
the values, right?
So make CallExpressions based on those and
kind of start to nest those as well.
So there's kind of a few ways to do it.
What we're gonna kinda create,
is we're gonna use,
the parentheses are gonna
inspire nested arrays, right?
And we can use those
nested arrays cuz again,
this is a kinda Lisp-like syntax where
everything is a list, arrays are lists.
It all works out great for us.
And so yeah, you can see that the first
one we have the name, 1 and 2.
So this is for that subtract.
Add 1 and 2, and subtract 4 and 2 kind
of nested structure that we saw before.
You can see, here's an add,
so on and so forth.
This is what we would get from
the parsing when we start to put it in,
we start to use those
parentheses to figure stuff out.
And this is the AST that we
get out the other end, right?
And so
you can see a lot of metadata about this.
Okay, we know that it's a function
that we're calling, right,
versus a function declaration.
Again, I've mostly took
inspiration from Babel for these,
cuz that's the kind of target
language that we're gonna try to hit.
And we can kind of dust them and
see along those lines and
what happens when the Babel comes across,
this is, okay, it's a call expression.
I know what those look like, it's actually
different than the way Lisp does it.
It's the function name,
and then the parentheses.
And so it'll be able to
rearrange all that stuff for us,
cuz we've expressed the meaning of our
code in this intermediate representation.
As I kinda said before, they're not
just for programming languages.
You can you can use them again,
like a lot of our LinkedIn tools,
a lot of our code formatting, right?
There's a lot of use cases for
this stuff above and beyond this.